feat: Editorial review, Relative color syntax (#32004)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_colors/relative_colors/index.md

color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3)
color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)

// color space included in the case of color() functions
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3)
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)
```

Relative colors are created using the same [color functions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions) as absolute colors, but with different parameters:

1. Include a basic color function (represented by _`color-function()`_ above) such as [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), etc. Which one you pick depends on the color model you want to use for the relative color you are creating (the **output color**).
2. Pass in the **origin color** (represented above by _`origin-color`_) your relative color will be based on, preceded by the `from` keyword. This can be any valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value using any available color model including a color value contained in a [CSS custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties), system colors, `currentColor`, or even another relative color.

> 3. Provide an output value for each individual channel. The output color is defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (and preceded by a _[`colorspace`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color#colorspace)_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the [color function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions) you are using for your relative color. For example, if you are using [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), you would need to define the values for hue, saturation, and lightness. Each channel value can be a new value, the same as the original value, or a value relative to the channel value of the origin color.

Author: Yeah, I like this; updated.

  <div class="item" id="two"></div>
</div>
```

```css hidden
#container {
  display: flex;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.item {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

```css
#one {
  background-color: red;
}

#two {
  background-color: rgb(from red 200 g b);
}
```

The output is as follows:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("General syntax", "100%", "200") }}

The relative color uses the [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) function, which takes `red` as the origin color, converts it to an equivalent `rgb()` color (`rgb(255 0 0)`) and then defines the new color as having a red channel of value `200` and green and blue channels with a value the same as the origin color (it uses the `g` and `b` values made available inside the function by the browser, which are both equal to `0`).

This results in an output of `rgb(200 0 0)` — a slightly darker red. If we had specified a red channel value of `255` (or just the `r` value), the resulting output color would be exactly the same as the input value. The browser's final output color (the computed value) is an sRGB `color()` value equivalent to `rgb(200 0 0)` — `color(srgb 0.784314 0 0)`.

> > **Note:** As mentioned above, when calculating a relative color the first thing the browser does is to convert the provided origin color (`red` in the above example) into a value in a color space compatible with the color function being used (in this case, `rgb()`). This is done so that the browser is able to calculate the output color from the origin color. While the calculations are performed relative to the color function used, the actual output color value depends on the color's color space:

Author: Updated!

Yeah, for detail like that we should look at it in follow-ups. We've been grinding along on this review for so long now that I think we should really try to just get it merged now with the minimum of additional comments ;-)

> > **Note:** As mentioned above, when calculating a relative color the first thing the browser does is to convert the provided origin color (`red` in the above example) into a value in a color space compatible with the color function being used (in this case, `rgb()`). This is done so that the browser is able to calculate the output color from the origin color. While the calculations are performed relative to the color function used, the actual output color value depends on the color's color space:

Reviewer: https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/32704

> - For more recent color functions (`lab()`, `oklab()`, `lch()`, and `oklch()`), relative color output values are expressed in the same syntax as the color function used. For example, if a [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab) color function is being used, the output color will be a `lab()` value.

These five lines all produce an equivalent output color:

```text
red
rgb(255 0 0)
rgb(from red r g b)
rgb(from red 255 g b)
rgb(from red 255 0 0)
```

## Syntax flexibility

There is an important distinction to be made between the destructured origin color channel values made available in the function, and the channel values of the output color set by the developer.

> When a relative color is defined via an `rgb()` function, the red, green, and blue channel values of the origin color are made available in the `r`, `g`, and `b` values. The following example uses the origin color channel values for the output channel values, meaning that the output color is the same as the origin color:

Author: I ended up going with:

> When a relative color is defined, the channel values of the origin color are made available in the function to use when defining the output color channel values. Those values match the function used. For example, when using an `rgb()` function the origin color channel values are available as `r`, `g`, and `b` values, when using `hsl()` they are available as `h`, `s`, and `l`, when using `lch()` they are available as `h`, `c`, and `h`, and so on.
>
> The following example defines a relative color using an `rgb()` function and uses the origin color channel values for the output channel values, meaning that the output color is the same as the origin color:

I think it's OK that this is repeated a bit below, as it is important to get your head around.

```css
rgb(from red r g b)
```

> However, when specifying the output values, you don't need to use the origin color channel values at all. You need to provide the output channel values in the right order, but they can be any values you wish provided they are valid values for those channels. This gives relative CSS colors a high degree of flexibility.

Author: I worry that this might be a bit confusing. I've gone for the really specific:

> However, when specifying the output values, you don't need to use the origin color channel values at all. You need to provide the output channel values in the right order (e.g. red, then green, then blue in the case of `rgb()`), but they can be any values you wish provided they are valid values for those channels. This gives relative CSS colors a high degree of flexibility.

For example:

```css
@supports (color: hsl(from white h s l)) {
  /* safe to use hsl() relative color syntax */
}
```

## Examples

> **Note:** You can find additional examples demonstrating the use of relative color syntax in the different functional notation types on their dedicated pages: [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color#using_relative_colors_with_color), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl#using_relative_colors_with_hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb#using_relative_colors_with_hwb), [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab#using_relative_colors_with_lab), [`lch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch#using_relative_colors_with_lch), [`oklab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklab#using_relative_colors_with_oklab), [`oklch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch#using_relative_colors_with_oklch), [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb#using_relative_colors_with_rgb).

### Color palette generator

This example allows you to choose a base color and a color palette type. The browser will then show an appropriate palette of colors based on the chosen base color. The color palette choices are as follows:

> - **Complementary**: Includes two colors that are at opposite sides of a color wheel, or to put it another way, _opposite hues_ (see the {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} data type for more information on hues and color wheels). The two colors are defined as a base color, and the base color with hue channel +180 degrees.

Author: This makes it sound like you are saying that both colors are the same color, which is the base color with 180deg added to the hue.

No change made. I'd rather not mess with these descriptions anymore, and keep them consistent. They do a good job of describing the palette types.

   to be specified in hue calculations. This is required for Safari 16.4+. */
@supports (color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 90deg))) {
  .tetradic :nth-child(2) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 90deg));
  }

  .tetradic :nth-child(3) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180deg));
  }

  .tetradic :nth-child(4) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 270deg));
  }
}

/* Monochrome colors */
/* Base color, and base color with lightness channel -20, -10, +10, and +20 */

.monochrome :nth-child(1) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l - 20) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(2) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l - 10) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(3) {
  background-color: var(--base-color);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(4) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 10) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(5) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 20) c h);
}

/* Hide unused swatches for each palette type */
.comp :nth-child(2) ~ div,
.triadic :nth-child(3) ~ div,
.tetradic :nth-child(4) ~ div {
  display: none;
}
```

> #### An aside on `@supports` testing

Author: Updated.

In the example CSS you'll notice {{cssxref("@supports")}} blocks being used to provide different {{cssxref("background-color")}} values to browsers that support a previous draft specification of the relative color syntax. These are required because Safari's initial implementation was based on an older version of the spec in which origin color channel values resolved to {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}s or other unit types depending on the context. This meant that values sometimes required units when performing additions and subtractions, which created confusion. In newer implementations, origin color channel values always resolve to an equivalent {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} value, which means calculations are always done with unitless values.

Note how the support test in each case is done using a simple declaration — `color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 90deg))` for example — rather than the actual value that we need to vary for other browsers. When testing complex values like these, you should use the simplest possible declaration that still contains the syntactic difference you want to test for.

> Including a custom property in the `@supports` test doesn't work — the test comes back as positive regardless of what value the custom property is given. This is because a custom property value only becomes invalid when assigned to be an invalid value (or part of an invalid value) of a regular CSS property. To work around this, in each test we have replaced `var(--base-color)` with the `red` keyword.

Author: updated

- Add an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the color picker control so that when a new color is selected, the `setBaseColor()` function runs. This function sets the `--base-color` custom property's value to the new color.

```js
const form = document.forms[0];
const radios = form.elements["palette-type"];
const colorPicker = form.elements["color"];
const containerElem = document.getElementById("container");

for (const radio of radios) {
  radio.addEventListener("change", setContainer);
}

colorPicker.addEventListener("input", setBaseColor);

function setContainer(e) {
  const palType = e.target.value;
  console.log("radio changed");
  containerElem.setAttribute("class", palType);
}

function setBaseColor(e) {
  console.log("color changed");
  containerElem.style.setProperty("--base-color", e.target.value);
}
```

> #### Output

Author: updated

The output is as follows. This starts to show the power of relative CSS colors — we are defining multiple colors and generating palettes that are updated live by adjusting a single custom property.

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Color palette generator", "100%", "470") }}

### Live UI color scheme updater

This example shows a card containing a heading and text, but with a twist — below the card is a slider ([`<input type="range">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/range)) control. When its value is changed, JavaScript is used to set a `--hue` custom property value to the new slider value.

This in turn adjusts the color scheme for the entire UI:

- The `--base-color` value is a relative color with its hue channel set to the value of `--hue`.

> - The other colors used in the design are relative colors based on `--base-color`.

Reviewer: in the css edits i suggested, ALL colors are now relative colors.

> - The other colors used in the design are relative colors based on `--base-color`.

Author: I think all the colors were relative colors anyway? I've made a change here to the second bullet:

- The other colors used in the design are relative colors based on `--base-color`. As a result, they change when the `--base-color` changes.

#### HTML

The HTML for the example is shown below.

> - The {{htmlelement("main")}} element acts as an outer wrapper to contain the `--hue` value. It also has a radial gradient set on it that fills the whole body.
> - The {{htmlelement("div")}} element with an ID of `container` acts as an inner container. It keeps the card and form together, allowing them to be centered vertically and horizontally inside `<main>` as one unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The {{htmlelement("main")}} element contains all the content. We will use JavaScript to update its `--hue` value. In our CSS, we define it to take up the entire window and provide it with a radial gradient background filling the whole body.
```

Reviewer: I recommended some css and HTML elements to make this so. In my suggestion, i remove the style from the element and remove the container div altogether.

Author: done

- The {{htmlelement("form")}} element contains the ([`<input type="range">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/range)) control and its {{htmlelement("label")}}.

```html
<main style="--hue: 240;">
  <div id="container">
    <section>
      <h1>A love of colors</h1>
      <p>
        Colors, the vibrant essence of our surroundings, are truly
        awe-inspiring. From the fiery warmth of reds to the calming coolness of
        blues, they bring unparalleled richness to our world. Colors stir
        emotions, ignite creativity, and shape perceptions, acting as a
        universal language of expression. Whether in a breathtaking sunset, a
        bustling marketplace, or an artist's canvas, colors transcend the visual
        spectrum, turning the ordinary into the extraordinary. In their
        brilliance, colors create a visually enchanting tapestry that invites
        admiration and sparks joy.
      </p>
    </section>
    <form>
      <label for="hue-adjust">Adjust the hue:</label>
      <input
        type="range"
        name="hue-adjust"
        id="hue-adjust"
        value="240"
        min="0"
        max="360" />
    </form>
  </div>

> </main>

Author: Right, I've removed the div, as I appreciate that wasn't needed, and I've set the base color on root.

```

#### CSS

In the CSS, first of all you should note the relative [`lch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch) colors set for the color scheme inside the `main` ruleset:

- `--base-color`: The base color takes an origin color of `red` (although any full color would do) and adjusts its hue value to the value set in the `--hue` custom property.
- `--bg-color`: A much lighter variant of `--base-color`, intended to be used as a background. This is created by taking an origin color of `--base-color` and adding 40 to its lightness value.
- `--complementary-color`: A complementary color 180 degrees around the color wheel from `--base-color`. This is created by taking an origin color of `--base-color` and adding 180 to its hue value.

> Now have a look at the rest of the CSS and take note of all the places where these colors are used. This includes [backgrounds](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/background), [borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border), [`text-shadow`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-shadow), and even the [`accent-color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/accent-color) of the slider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now have a look at the rest of the CSS and take note of all the places where these colors are used. This includes [backgrounds](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/background), [borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border), [`text-shadow`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-shadow), {{cssxref("color")}}, and even the [`accent-color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/accent-color) of the slider.

The relevant CSS includes:
```

Author: No change. I didn't end up including your change that included a relative color set on h1, as it didn't seem to have any real effect.

```css hidden

> html {
>   font-family: sans-serif;
> }
> 
> body {
>   margin: 0;
>   height: 100vh;
> }
> 
> #container {
>   width: 600px;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
html {
    font-family: sans-serif;
  }
  body {
    margin: 0;
  }
  main {
    display:flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    width: 100vw;
    height: 100vh;
  }
  section {
    border-radius: 20px;
  }
  h1 {
    border-radius: 16px 16px 0 0;
    font-size: 3rem;
    letter-spacing: -1px;
    text-align: center;
    margin: 0;
    padding: 20px;
  }
  p {
    line-height: 1.5;
    margin: 0;
    padding: 20px;
  }
  label {
    padding-right: 10px;
  }
```

Reviewer: i suggest hiding more of the CSS, and perhaps adding a phrase stating that just the relevant css is shown

Author: done, and done

```

```css
main {
  /* Relative color definitions */
  --base-color: lch(from red l c var(--hue));
  --bg-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 40) c h);
  --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180));

  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
  display: flex;

>   align-items: center;
>   justify-content: center;
>   background: radial-gradient(white, var(--base-color));
> }
> 
> /* Use @supports to add in support for --complementary-color with old
>    syntax that requires deg units to be specified in hue calculations.
>    This is required for in Safari 16.4+. */
> @supports (color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 180deg))) {
>   main {
>     --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180deg));
>   }
> }
> 
> /* box styling */
> 
> section {
>   background-color: var(--bg-color);
>   border: 3px solid var(--base-color);
>   border-radius: 20px;
>   box-shadow: 10px 10px 30px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
> }
> 
> h1 {
>   text-align: center;
>   margin: 0;
>   padding: 20px;
>   background-color: var(--base-color);
>   color: black;
>   border-radius: 16px 16px 0 0;
>   font-size: 3rem;
>   letter-spacing: -1px;
>   text-shadow:
>     1px 1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
>     -1px -1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
>     0 0 3px var(--complementary-color);
> }
> 
> p {
>   line-height: 1.5;
>   margin: 0;
>   padding: 20px;
> }
> 
> /* form styling */
> 
> form {
>   display: flex;
>   align-items: center;
>   justify-content: center;
>   margin-top: 10px;
> }
> 
> label {
>   padding-right: 10px;
> }
> 
> input {
>   accent-color: var(--base-color);
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:root {
  /* default hue color */
  --hue: 240;
}
main {
  /* Relative color definitions */
  --base-color: lch(from red l c var(--hue));
  --bg-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 40) c h);
  --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180));
  background: radial-gradient(lch(from var(--base-color) 100 c h), var(--base-color));
}

/* Use @supports to add in support for --complementary-color with old
   syntax that requires deg units to be specified in hue calculations.
   This is required for in Safari 16.4+. */
@supports (color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 180deg))) {
  main {
    --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180deg));
  }
}

/* box styling */
section {
  background-color: var(--bg-color);
  border: 3px solid var(--base-color);
  box-shadow: 10px 10px 30px lch(from var(--base-color) 0 c h / 0.5);
}
h1 {
  background-color: var(--base-color);
  color: lch(from var(--base-color) 0 c h);
  text-shadow:
    1px 1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
    -1px -1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
    0 0 3px var(--complementary-color);
}

/* form styling */
form {
  display: inline-flex;
  margin: 10px auto;
  padding: 5px 10px;
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) 100 c h);
}
input {
  accent-color: var(--base-color);
}
```

Reviewer: see https://codepen.io/estelle/pen/abxmKpp

Author: I've not made all your exact changes, as I preferred the finished look of my original. But I have fixed the issues you brought up above.

```

#### JavaScript

> The JavaScript adds an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the slider control so that when a new value is set, the `setHue()` function runs. This function sets the `--hue` custom property's value to the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript adds an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the slider control so that when a new value is set, the `setHue()` function runs. This function sets the `--hue` custom property's value on the `<main>` element.
```
since we removed it from the HTML

Author: I rewrote my JS so that it selects and sets the new `--hue` value directly on `:root`. As a result, I rewrote this as follows:

> The JavaScript adds an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the slider control so that when a new value is set, the `setHue()` function runs. This function sets a new inline `--hue` custom property value on the `:root` (the `<html>` element) that overrides the original default value we set in our CSS.

```js
const mainElem = document.querySelector("main");
const slider = document.getElementById("hue-adjust");

slider.addEventListener("input", setHue);

function setHue(e) {
  console.log("hue changed");
  mainElem.style.setProperty("--hue", e.target.value);
}
```

> #### Output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Results
```

Author: updated

The output is shown below. Relative CSS colors are being used here to control the color scheme of an entire UI, which can be adjusted live as a single value is modified.

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Live UI color scheme updater", "100%", "500") }}

## See also

> - The {{CSSXref("&lt;color&gt;", "&lt;color&gt;")}} data type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The {{CSSXref("&lt;color&gt;")}} data type
```

Author: updated

> - functional notation typess:
>   - [sRGB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRGB) color space: {{CSSXref("color_value/hsl", "hsl()")}}, {{CSSXref("color_value/hwb", "hwb()")}}, {{CSSXref("color_value/rgb", "rgb()")}};
>   - [CIELAB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CIELAB_color_space) color space: {{CSSXref("color_value/lab", "lab()")}}, {{CSSXref("color_value/lch", "lch()")}};
>   - [Oklab](https://bottosson.github.io/posts/oklab/) color space: {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "oklab()")}}, {{CSSXref("color_value/oklch", "oklch()")}};
> - Other color spaces: {{CSSXref("color_value/color", "color()")}}.
> - [CSS relative color syntax](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/css-relative-color-syntax) on developer.chrome.com (2023)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) module
- [sRGB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRGB) on Wikipedia
- [CIELAB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CIELAB_color_space) on Wikipedia
- [CSS relative color syntax](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/css-relative-color-syntax) on developer.chrome.com (2023)
```

Reviewer: the functions are already in the content. We link to the glossary, which explains which are in whch color function. OKLab can be on the oklab page (not needed here). link to the module page which links to all the other pages.

Author: WFM, nice to cut the list down and make the list a bit easier to parse.

---
title: Using relative colors
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors
page-type: guide
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The [CSS colors Module](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) defines **relative color syntax**, which allows CSS {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} values to be defined relative to other existing colors, rather than defining a color value from scratch each time. This is a powerful feature that enables easy creation of complements to existing colors — such as lighter, darker, saturated, semi-transparent, or inverted variants — paving the way towards more effective color palette creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [CSS colors module](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) defines a **relative color syntax**, which allows a CSS {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value to be defined relative to another color. This is a powerful feature that enables easy creation of complements to existing colors — such as lighter, darker, saturated, semi-transparent, or inverted variants — enabling more effective color palette creation.
```

is it any other color, including system colors, currentColor, etc?
trying to come up with a better term than "effective"

> This article explains the syntax, shows what the different options are, and looks at some illustrative examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article explains the relative color syntax, shows what the different options are, and looks at some illustrative examples.
```

Author: updated

## General syntax

A relative CSS color value has the following general syntax structure:

```text
color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3)
color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)

// colorspace included in the case of color() functions
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3)
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)
```

> 1. You create a relative color using the same basic color functions (represented by _`color-function`_ above) as non-relative (absolute) colors — [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), etc. Which one you pick depends on the color model you want to use for the relative color you are creating (the **output color**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relative colors are created using the same color functions as absolute colors, but with different parameters:

1. Include a basic color function (represented by _`color-function()`_ above) such as [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), etc. Which one you pick depends on the color model you want to use for the relative color you are creating (the **output color**).
```
pulled out the first sentence from 1. and 2. to create an intro and shorten the length of each list item.

Author: Sure, that makes sense. Updated.

> 2. The syntax inside the color function is a bit different for relative colors. First of all, you pass in an **origin color** (represented above by _`origin-color`_) to base your relative color on, preceded by the `from` keyword. This can be any valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value using any available color model, including a color value contained in a [CSS custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Pass in the **origin color** (represented above by _`origin-color`_) your relative color will be based on, preceded by the `from` keyword. This can be any valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value using any available color model, including a color value contained in a [CSS custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties).
```
currentColor?
removed intro to 2 and added it to the list intro

Author: Sure, updated, and added in currentColor, etc.

> 3. The individual channels of the output color are then defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (preceded by a _`colorspace`_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the color function you are using for your relative color. If you are using `hsl()` for example, you would need to define hue, saturation, and lightness values. These could be static values, or values based on the channel values of the origin color.

Reviewer: we should create a "colorspace" glossary term and link this first occurrence to it.

Author: Can we do that as a follow-up piece of work and not block this PR on it? I'm getting a bit fatigued.

Reviewer: I filed an issue so we remember: https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/32478

Author: Thank you @estelle, much appreciated.

> 3. The individual channels of the output color are then defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (preceded by a _`colorspace`_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the color function you are using for your relative color. If you are using `hsl()` for example, you would need to define hue, saturation, and lightness values. These could be static values, or values based on the channel values of the origin color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Provide an output value for each individual channel. The output color is defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (preceded by a _`colorspace`_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the color function you are using for your relative color. For example, if you are using {{cssxref("hsl","hsl()")}}, you would need to define the values for hue, saturation, and lightness. Each channel value can be a new value, the same as the original value, or a value relative to the channel value of the origin color.
```

Author: updated

> 4. Optionally, an `alpha` channel value for the output color is defined, preceded by a slash (`/`). If the `alpha` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the _`origin-color`_ (not 100%, which is the case with absolute color values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Optionally, an `alpha` channel value for the output color can be defined, preceded by a slash (`/`). If the `alpha` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the _`origin-color`_ (not 100%, which is the case with absolute color values).
```

Author: Updated

> Supporting browsers destructure the origin color into its component color channels (plus the `alpha` channel if the origin color has one) as represented in the color system you are passing the color in to. These are made available as appropriately-named values inside the color function — `r`, `g`, and `b` in the case of the `rgb()` function — and can be used to calculate new output channel values. See the [Syntax flexibility](#syntax_flexibility) section for more detail on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser converts the origin color to the syntax of the color function then destructures the origin color into the component color channels (plus the `alpha` channel if the origin color has one) as represented in the color system of the output color. These are made available as appropriately-named values inside the color function — `r`, `g`, and `b` in the case of the `rgb()` function, `L`, `a`, and `b` in the case of the `lab()` function, etc. — that can be used to calculate new output channel values.
```
removed " See the [Syntax flexibility](#syntax_flexibility) section for more detail on this." because, at this point in the doc, the reader would not understand what that term means, and isn't looking at what you would do with `r r r` as they don't yet know what is done with a single `r`.

Author: ok, all good. Updated

Let's look at relative color syntax in action. The below CSS is used to style two {{htmlelement("div")}} elements, one with a absolute background color — `red` — and one with a relative background color created with the `rgb()` function, based on the same `red` color value:

```html hidden
<div id="container">

>   <div class="item" id="one"></div>
>   <div class="item" id="two"></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <div class="item" id="one">#one</div>
  <div class="item" id="two">#two</div>
```

Author: I don't think this is necessary. It is pretty obvious which box is which. I think it is just overcomplicating the example.

Plus, if we did this one, for consistency's sake we'd then have to change every other similar example on every other page I've touched, which I just don't want to do.

</div>
```

```css hidden
#container {
  display: flex;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;

>   box-sizing: border-box;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  box-sizing: border-box;
  color: white;
  font-size: 1.5rem;
  text-align: center;
  line-height: 3;
```

Author: See above comment

}

.item {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

```css
#one {
  background-color: red;
}

#two {
  background-color: rgb(from red 200 g b);
}
```

The output is as follows:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("General syntax", "100%", "200") }}

> The relative color uses the [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) function, which takes `red` as an input (equivalent to `rgb(255 0 0)`), and then defines the new color as having a red channel of value `200` and green and blue channels with a value the same as the origin color (it uses the `g` and `b` values made available inside the function by the browser). This results in a slightly darker red. If we had specified a red channel value of `255` (or just the `r` value), the resulting output color would be exactly the same as the input value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relative color uses the [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) function, which takes `red` as an input, converts it to the output color's syntax (equivalent to `rgb(255 0 0)`), and then defines the new color as having a red channel of value `200` and green and blue channels with a value the same as the origin color (it uses the `g` and `b` values made available inside the function by the browser). This results in a slightly darker red. If we had specified a red channel value of `255` (or just the `r` value), the resulting output color would be exactly the same as the input value.
```

Reviewer: this is my understanding. If this is correct, we should say it. If it is not, then all my other edits this evening are invalid ;)

Author: Yup, this is correct, although it actually converts it to the sRGB `color()` equivalent behind the scenes. I'm not sure if it is worth saying that here; it might just confuse more than it helps at this stage.

Reviewer: it is worth saying. People will wonder how an hsl() L 50% value 10% added to come up with 222 for G (green), or similar.

Author: OK, I have added a nice juicy note to explain this, just below the part you commented on.

These four lines all produce an equivalent output color:

```text
red
rgb(255 0 0)
rgb(from red r g b)

> rgb(from red 255 g b)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rgb(from red 255 g b)
rgb(from red 255 0 0)
```
not sure if we should add that, but we can ;)

Reviewer: Note: end of Monday's edits

Author: Sure, why not. Added.

- `--complementary-color`: A complementary color 180 degrees around the color wheel from `--base-color`. This is created by taking an origin color of `--base-color` and adding 180 to its hue value.

Now have a look at the rest of the CSS and take note of all the places where these colors are used. This includes [backgrounds](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/background), [borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border), [`text-shadow`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-shadow), and even the [`accent-color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/accent-color) of the slider.

> **Note:** For brevity, only the parts of the CSS relevant to relative color usage are shown.

```css hidden
html {
  font-family: sans-serif;
}

body {
  margin: 0;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
}

form {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  margin-top: 10px;
}

label {
  padding-right: 10px;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.5;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 20px;
}

main {
  width: 600px;
}
```

```css

> :root {
>   /* Default hue value */
>   --hue: 240;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /* Register hue and set initial value */
 @property --hue {
   syntax: "<integer>";
   inherits: false;
   initial-value: 240;
}
:root {
```
I was going to suggest registering, then realized, we should likely use a color picker instead of an input. I don't want to hold up this PR, but if you want to change the example to `<input type="color">`, i think that will be fantastic. That would really show the power of relative colors. Or we can post this, then add another example with all that.

Author: I'd rather not use a color picker in this example — I just want to adjust the hue, not the whole color. I also think being able to scrobble through the different hues is really fun.

Also - the first example uses a color picker.

> }
> 
> body {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
put the vars and the background on :root over body (best practices)

Author: good call, done

  /* Relative color definitions */
  --base-color: lch(from red l c var(--hue));
  --bg-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 40) c h);
  --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180));

>   background: radial-gradient(white, var(--base-color));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  background: radial-gradient(ellipse at bottom right, white, var(--base-color));
```
not necessary, but most people don't know the syntax of radial gradients, so if you feel like it....

Author: I'd prefer to have it in the center, but I did add it, along with a 50%, so the gradient is more noticeable and it looks a bit more fun:

```css
background: radial-gradient(ellipse at center, white 50%, var(--base-color));
```

}

/* Use @supports to add in support for --complementary-color with old
   syntax that requires deg units to be specified in hue calculations.
   This is required for in Safari 16.4+. */
@supports (color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 180deg))) {
  body {
    --complementary-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180deg));
  }
}

/* Box styling */

section {
  background-color: var(--bg-color);
  border: 3px solid var(--base-color);
  border-radius: 20px;
  box-shadow: 10px 10px 30px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
}

h1 {
  text-align: center;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 20px;
  background-color: var(--base-color);
  color: black;
  border-radius: 16px 16px 0 0;
  font-size: 3rem;
  letter-spacing: -1px;
  text-shadow:
    1px 1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
    -1px -1px 1px var(--complementary-color),
    0 0 3px var(--complementary-color);
}

/* Range slider styling */

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

form {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) 100 c h);
}
```
While it does pass wcag, the luminance of the base-color makes the text on the form hard to read. This provides an addional example of using relative colors 

Testing this I discovered a color issue in FF and filed a bug: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1885453

Author: This example doesn't really demonstrate much — setting lightness to 100 basically just means that the color is always white, so you may as well just put `background-color: white`. I've updated the code to give the form a relative color bg and border, and spaced it nicely. It is more readable now.

---
title: Using relative colors
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors
page-type: guide
---

{{CSSRef}}

The [CSS colors module](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors) defines **relative color syntax**, which allows a CSS {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value to be defined relative to another color. This is a powerful feature that enables easy creation of complements to existing colors — such as lighter, darker, saturated, semi-transparent, or inverted variants — enabling more effective color palette creation.

This article explains relative color syntax, shows what the different options are, and looks at some illustrative examples.

## General syntax

A relative CSS color value has the following general syntax structure:

```text
color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3)
color-function(from origin-color channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)

// color space included in the case of color() functions
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3)
color(from origin-color colorspace channel1 channel2 channel3 / alpha)
```

> Relative colors are created using the same color functions as absolute colors, but with different parameters:

Author: updated

1. Include a basic color function (represented by _`color-function()`_ above) such as [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), etc. Which one you pick depends on the color model you want to use for the relative color you are creating (the **output color**).

> 2. Pass in the **origin color** (represented above by _`origin-color`_) your relative color will be based on, preceded by the `from` keyword. This can be any valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value using any available color model, including a color value contained in a [CSS custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties), system colors, `currentColor`, etc.

Author: I decided to add it into the list of examples instead — "...including a color value contained in a [CSS custom property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties), system colors, `currentColor`, or even another relative color. "

> 3. Provide an output value for each individual channel. The output color is defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (and preceded by a _`colorspace`_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the color function you are using for your relative color. For example, if you are using [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), you would need to define the values for hue, saturation, and lightness. Each channel value can be a new value, the same as the original value, or a value relative to the channel value of the origin color.

Author: updated

> 3. Provide an output value for each individual channel. The output color is defined after the origin color — represented above by the _`channel1`_, _`channel2`_, and _`channel3`_ placeholders (and preceded by a _`{{glossary("color space", "colorspace")}}`_ in the case of [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) functions). The channels defined here depend on the [color function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions) you are using for your relative color. For example, if you are using [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), you would need to define the values for hue, saturation, and lightness. Each channel value can be a new value, the same as the original value, or a value relative to the channel value of the origin color.

Author: Makes sense; updated

4. Optionally, an `alpha` channel value for the output color can be defined, preceded by a slash (`/`). If the `alpha` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the _`origin-color`_ (not 100%, which is the case for absolute color values).

> The browser converts the origin color to a syntax compatible with the color function then destructures it into component color channels (plus the `alpha` channel if the origin color has one). These are made available as appropriately-named values inside the color function — `r`, `g`, and `b` in the case of the `rgb()` function, `L`, `a`, and `b` in the case of the `lab()` function, etc. — that can be used to calculate new output channel values.

Author: I've got no problem with adding an extra example, but I've elected to do it like this instead in terms of including `alpha`:

"...color function — `r`, `g`, `b`, and `alpha` in the case of the `rgb()` function, `l`, `a`, `b`, and `alpha` in the case of the `lab()` function, `h`, `w`, `b`, and `alpha` in the case of `hwb()`, etc. — that..."

Let's look at relative color syntax in action. The below CSS is used to style two {{htmlelement("div")}} elements, one with a absolute background color — `red` — and one with a relative background color created with the `rgb()` function, based on the same `red` color value:

```html hidden
<div id="container">
  <div class="item" id="one"></div>
  <div class="item" id="two"></div>
</div>
```

```css hidden
#container {
  display: flex;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.item {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

```css
#one {
  background-color: red;
}

#two {
  background-color: rgb(from red 200 g b);
}
```

The output is as follows:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("General syntax", "100%", "200") }}

> The relative color uses the [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) function, which takes `red` as the origin color, converts it to an equivalent `rgb()` color (`rgb(255 0 0)`) and then defines the new color as having a red channel of value `200` and green and blue channels with a value the same as the origin color (it uses the `g` and `b` values made available inside the function by the browser, which are both quial to `0`).

Author: good spot; fixed!

> **Note:** As mentioned above, when calculating a relative color the first thing the browser does is to convert the provided origin color (`red` in the above example) into a value in a color space compatible with the color function being used (`rgb()`). This is done so that the browser is able to calculate the output color from the origin color. In addition, the output color's computed value will match this same representation.
>
> - In the case of sRGB color functions ([`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb)) the browser always converts the origin color into a [`color(srgb ...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) representation behind the scenes.

> > - In the case of non-sRGB color functions, the browser always converts the origin color into the same function type as the output color type, provided of course the two are not of the saqme type already. For example, if a [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab) output color type is being used, the origin color is converted to a `lab()` type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - In the case of non-sRGB color functions, the browser always converts the origin color into the same function type as the output color type, provided of course the two are not of the same type already. For example, if a [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab) output color type is being used, the origin color is converted to a `lab()` type.
```

> > - In the case of non-sRGB color functions, the browser always converts the origin color into the same function type as the output color type, provided of course the two are not of the same type already. For example, if a [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab) output color type is being used, the origin color is converted to a `lab()` type.

Author: Are you sure? I thought it was in the [CIELAB color space](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#cielab_color_spaces)?

In any case, I've rewritten this bit so that it makes more sense, given my previous revelations around all this color conversion stuff.

> > **Note:** As mentioned above, when calculating a relative color the first thing the browser does is to convert the provided origin color (`red` in the above example) into a value in a color space compatible with the color function being used (`rgb()`). This is done so that the browser is able to calculate the output color from the origin color. The final output color value depends on the color's color space:
> >
> > - In the case of sRGB color functions ([`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), and [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb)) the browser represents the output color as a [`color(srgb ...)`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color) value.
> > - In the case of non-sRGB color functions, the browser represents the output color as the same type as the color function used, provided of course the two are not of the same type already. For example, if a [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab) color function is being used, the output color will be a `lab()` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** As mentioned above, when calculating a relative color the first thing the browser does is to convert the provided origin color (`red` in the above example) into a value in a color space compatible with the color function being used (`rgb()`). This is done so that the browser is able to calculate the output color from the origin color. The final output color value depends on the color function used, or, in the case of `color()`, the included color space.
```

Let's f2f on this. Or, let me to where in the spec it says that `hsl()` outputs `color(srgb)` b/c i don't see it.

Author: Well, this is what's happening in my actual tests in the browser.

Reviewer 2: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#serial-relative-color

------

It is very important to keep in mind that there is no such thing as `hsl()` colors or `color()` colors. They are all colors and the functions are simply different notations to describe these color values.

`rgb`, `hsl` have been around for a very long time.
This means that there are some warts that cannot be resolved without causing web compat issues.

Serializing to `color(srgb ...)` for some values avoids these issues.

For example `rgb(from red calc(r + 10) g b)`.

That is `rgb(265 0 0)` but `rgb()` is clamped when parsing.
So round tripping this value through JavaScript would result in `rgb(255 0 0)`.

However `color(srgb 1.04 0 0)` doesn't have this clamping behavior. So this is safe to pass around without losing the original value.

-------

_`hwb` is also serialized to `color(...)` but I can't remember exactly why given that it is a newer feature and web compat was less of an issue here._

Reviewer 2: I would omit `Older sRGB color functions have some web compatibility issues and don't support the full spectrum of visibible colors.`.

Or alternatively change it to something like : `Older sRGB color functions can not express the full spectrum of visible colors.`

The older function donot have web compat issues by themselves. However changing them so they are no longer clamped during parsing would be a web compat issue.

Author: I've made this change, @romainmenke.

red
rgb(255 0 0)
rgb(from red r g b)
rgb(from red 255 g b)
rgb(from red 255 0 0)
```

## Syntax flexibility

There is an important distinction to be made between the destructured origin color channel values made available in the function, and the channel values of the output color set by the developer.

When a relative color is defined via an `rgb()` function, the red, green, and blue channel values of the origin color are made available in the `r`, `g`, and `b` values. The following example uses the origin color channel values for the output channel values, meaning that the output color is the same as the origin color:

```css
rgb(from red r g b)
```

However, when specifying the output values, you don't need to use the origin color channel values at all. You need to provide the output channel values in the right order, but they can be any values you wish provided they are valid values for those channels. This gives relative CSS colors a high degree of flexibility.

For example, if you wanted to, you could specify absolute values like those shown below, transforming `red` into `blue`:

```css
rgb(from red 0 0 255)
/* output color is equivalent to rgb(0 0 255), full blue */
```

> > **Note:** Bear in mind that, if you are using relative color syntax but outputting the same color as the origin color or a color not based on the origin color at all, you are not really creating a relative color. You'd be unlikely to ever do this in a real codebase, and would probably just use an absolute color value instead. But, we felt it useful to explain that you _can_ do this with relative color syntax, as a starting point for learning about it.

Author: I like the two above suggestions; updated, with a few edits in the case of the first one.

You can even mix up or repeat the provided values. The following takes a slightly darker red as an input and outputs a light gray color — the output color's `r`, `g`, and `b` channels are all set to the origin color's `r` channel value:

```css
rgb(from rgb(200 0 0) r r r)
/* output color is equivalent to rgb(200 200 200), light gray */
```

The following uses the origin color's channel values for the output color's `r`, `g`, and `b` channel values, but in reverse order:

```css
rgb(from rgb(200 170 0) b g r)
/* output color is equivalent to rgb(0 170 200) */
```

## Color functions that support relative colors

> In the section above we only saw relative colors defined via the [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb) function. However, relative colors can be defined using any modern CSS color function — [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab), [`lch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch), [`oklab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklab), [`oklch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch), or [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb). The general syntax structure is the same in each case, although the origin color values have different names appropriate for the function being used.

Author: I'd rather not encourage people to use "legacy" color functions any more than is necessary.

```css
/* color() with and without alpha channel */
/* Note that Chrome supports r g b and x y z for all color spaces */

> /* Whereas Safari supports r g b or x y z depending on the color space */

Author: ok, removed

color(from red a98-rgb r g b)
color(from red a98-rgb r g b / alpha)

color(from red xyz-d50 x y z)
color(from red xyz-d50 x y z / alpha)

/* hsl() with and without alpha channel */
hsl(from red h s l)
hsl(from red h s l / alpha)

/* hwb() with and without alpha channel */
hwb(from red h w b)
hwb(from red h w b / alpha)

/* lab() with and without alpha channel */
lab(from red l a b)
lab(from red l a b / alpha)

/* lch() with and without alpha channel */
lch(from red l c h)
lch(from red l c h / alpha)

/* oklab() with and without alpha channel */
oklab(from red l a b)
oklab(from red l a b / alpha)

/* oklch() with and without alpha channel */
oklch(from red l c h)
oklch(from red l c h / alpha)

/* rgb() with and without alpha channel */
rgb(from red r g b)
rgb(from red r g b / alpha)
```

> It is worth mentioning again that the color system of the origin color doesn't need to match the color system being used to create the output color. Again, this provides a lot of flexibility — generally you won't be interested in (and might not even know) the system the origin color is defined in. You'll just want to grab the color and, for example, create a lighter variant of it by putting it into an `hsl()` function and varying the lightness value.

Author: Good call; I've mostly done this, but handled it slightly differently.

> > **Note:** Relative colors cannot be defined via legacy color syntax, for example `rgba()` and `hsla()` functions. However, you can pass in legacy origin colors.

Author: I ended up with this:

> **Note:** While a relative color's origin color can be specified using legacy color syntax such as `rgba()` or `hsla()`, a legacy color function can't be used to output a relative color.

while I think it a bit cleaner

> > **Note:** Relative colors cannot be defined via legacy color syntax, for example `rgba()` and `hsla()` functions. However, you can pass in legacy origin colors.

Reviewer: perfect

> > **Note:** While a relative color's origin color can be specified using legacy color syntax such as `rgba()` or `hsla()`, a legacy color function can't be used to output a relative color.

Reviewer: It actually can. I didn't see this until now, but https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#relative-RGB - 

> [`<modern-rgba-syntax>`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#typedef-modern-rgba-syntax) = rgba( [ from [`<color>`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#typedef-color) ][?](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#mult-opt)
        [ [`<number>`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#number-value) [|](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#comb-one) [<`percentage>`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#percentage-value) [|](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#comb-one) none][{3}](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#mult-num)
        [ / [[`<alpha-value>`](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-color-alpha-value) [|](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#comb-one) none] ][?](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#mult-opt)  )
```suggestion
> **Note:** A relative color's origin color can be specified using legacy color syntax such as `rgba()` or `hsla()`. If using either legacy color function to output a relative color, you must use the comma-less modern syntax and can't mix percents and numbers.
```
write that better, but that's the general idea.

Author: I have just done a load of testing on this, and AFAICS, what the note currently says is true. I can get relative colors to work when using a legacy color as an origin color, but I can't get them to work when using relative color syntax inside a legacy color function. Did you get any joy here? What syntax did you use?

Reviewer 2: Update : 

This was changed here : https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/commit/42eaa4d40a58188ae0493497f715c82229dea699
Discussed here : https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/8231
And also here : https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7900#issuecomment-1317302742

Author: @romainmenke thanks for the info. OK, so as per the newest specs then, I should change the information on legacy and `rgba()`/`hsla()` to say that:

1. These functions are aliases rather than legacy.
2. Legacy syntax is the use of commas to separate values; when commas are used, `none` is not allowed, and mixing numbers and percentages is not allowed. This is the case for legacy syntax when used in both absolute and relative colors?
3. `rgba()`/`hsla()` can be used to define relative colors, and as origin colors (at the moment, `rgba(from ...)` and `hsla(from ...)` doesn't seem to work at all, but I suspect browser implementations will catch up)

?

Let me know if I've missing anything here, and I'll make some updates.

Reviewer 2: 1 : yes, that is also how I understand it.

2 : yes, `rgb(from red, r, g, b)` could be interpreted as a legacy syntax form of relative colors and this is invalid. (both invalid in spec and implementations)

3 : also yes :) I've submitted updated WPT tests and when those are merged I will submit bugs where needed. So hopefully this is fixed soon.

The only mistake authors can make, is to keep using commas as separators when trying to leverage modern sub-features.

> > **Note:** While a relative color's origin color can be specified using legacy color syntax such as `rgba()` or `hsla()`, a legacy color function can't be used to output a relative color.

Author: Cool, using this. Well, I've used a variant of this, as follows:

> **Note:** Legacy color syntax such as `rgba()` or `hsla()` can be used to output relative colors, and to specify origin colors. When using legacy color functions to output a relative color, you must use the comma-less modern syntax and can't mix percentages and numbers.

I'll also go back to the rgb() and hsl() pages and make sure this information update is included, now I know that the spec now includes this.

## Using custom properties

> When creating a relative color, you can use values defined in [CSS custom properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties) both for the origin color and when defining the output color channel values. Let's look at an example.

Author: yup, like it. Updated.

In the below CSS we define two custom properties:

> - `--base-color` contains our base brand color — `purple`.

Author: Yeah, seems like a good idea. I ended up with "Here we are using a named color keyword, but relative colors can accept any color syntax for the origin color."

```html hidden
<div id="container">
  <div class="item" id="one"></div>
  <div class="item" id="two"></div>
  <div class="item" id="three"></div>
</div>
```

```css hidden
#container {
  display: flex;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.item {
  flex: 1;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

```css
:root {
  --base-color: orange;
}

#one {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 20) c h);
}

#two {
  background-color: var(--base-color);
}

#three {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l - 20) c h);
}
```

The output is as follows:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Using math functions", "100%", "200") }}

> ## Channel values resolve to `<number>` values

Reviewer: You may want to move this up to before the custom property section.

Author: I know what you mean — this kind of info is more kind of preamble info that should perhaps logically come before examples. However, I felt that the reader would be able to understand this information better if they had seen an example to relate it to first, hence putting it after the math and custom properties sections. 

I therefore am not going to move this.

> To make channel value calculations work in relative colors, all origin color channel values resolve to appropriate {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} values. For example, in the `lch()` examples above, we are calculating new lightness values by adding or subtracting numbers from the origin color's `l` channel value. If we tried to do `calc(l + 20%)`, that would result in an invalid color — `l` is a `<number>` and cannot be added to a {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make channel value calculations work in relative colors, all origin color channel values resolve to appropriate {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} values. For example, in the `lch()` examples above, we are calculating new lightness values by adding or subtracting numbers from the origin color's `l` channel value. If we tried to do `calc(l + 20%)`, that would result in an invalid color — `l` is a `<number>` and cannot have a {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} added to it.
```

Author: Updated

- Channel values originally specified as a `<percentage>` resolve to a `<number>` appropriate for the output color function.

> - Channel values originally specified as a {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} angle resolve to a number of degrees in the range 0–360.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Channel values originally specified as a {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} angle resolve to a number of degrees in the range of `0` to `360`, inclusive.
```

Author: updated

Check the different [color function pages](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions) for the specifics of what their origin channel values resolve to.

## Checking for browser support

You can check that a browser supports relative color syntax by running it through a {{cssxref("@supports")}} at-rule.

For example:

```css
@supports (color: hsl(from white h s l)) {
  /* safe to use hsl() relative color syntax */
}
```

## Examples

> > **Note:** You can also find basic examples demonstrating the use of relative color syntax in the different functional notation types on their dedicated pages: [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color#using_relative_colors_with_color), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl#using_relative_colors_with_hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb#using_relative_colors_with_hwb), [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab#using_relative_colors_with_lab), [`lch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch#using_relative_colors_with_lch), [`oklab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklab#using_relative_colors_with_oklab), [`oklch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch#using_relative_colors_with_oklch), [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb#using_relative_colors_with_rgb).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** You can find additional examples demonstrating the use of relative color syntax in the different functional notation types on their dedicated pages: [`color()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color#using_relative_colors_with_color), [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl#using_relative_colors_with_hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb#using_relative_colors_with_hwb), [`lab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lab#using_relative_colors_with_lab), [`lch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch#using_relative_colors_with_lch), [`oklab()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklab#using_relative_colors_with_oklab), [`oklch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/oklch#using_relative_colors_with_oklch), [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb#using_relative_colors_with_rgb).
```

Author: updated

### Color palette generator

This example allows you to choose a base color and a color palette type. The browser will then show an appropriate palette of colors based on the chosen base color. The color palette choices are as follows:

- **Complementary**: Includes two colors that are at opposite sides of a color wheel, or to put it another way, _opposite hues_ (see the {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} data type for more information on hues and color wheels). To put it technically, the two colors would be base color, and base color with hue channel + 180 degrees.

> - **Triadic**: Includes three colors equal distances apart around the color wheel. To put it technically, the three colors would be base color, base color with hue channel -120 degrees, and base color with hue channel +120 degrees.

Author: I think both are correct, but mine is a bit more comfortable to read. No change.

> - **Complementary**: Includes two colors that are at opposite sides of a color wheel, or to put it another way, _opposite hues_ (see the {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} data type for more information on hues and color wheels). To put it technically, the two colors would be base color, and base color with hue channel + 180 degrees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Complementary**: Includes two colors that are at opposite sides of a color wheel, or have _opposite hues_ (see the {{cssxref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} data type for more information on hues and color wheels). To create a complementary color, we add 180 degrees to the hue channel of the base color.
```

Reviewer: tried to simplify and shorted, but i guess its not that much shorter. I suggest getting rid of the "To put it technically," in all the definitions.

Author: I hear you — "To put it technically," is a bit messy. I've taken a simpler approach of starting the sentence in each case with "The four colors are defined as..."

- **Tetradic**: Includes four colors equal distances apart around the color wheel. To put it technically, the four colors would be base color, and base color with hue channel +90, +180, and +270 degrees.
- **Monochrome**: Includes multiple colors with the same hue but varying lightness values. In our example we've defined five colors in a monochrome palette — base color, and base color with lightness channel -20, -10, +10, and +20.

#### HTML

The full HTML is included below for reference. The most interesting parts are:

> - The `--base-color` custom property stored as an inline style on the {{htmlelement("div")}} element with the ID of `container`. We've placed it there so it is easy to update the value using JavaScript. We've provided an initial value of `#ff0000` (full red) so we can show a color palette based on it when the example first loads. Note that normally we'd probably set this on the {{htmlelement("html")}} element, but the MDN live sample was stripping it out from there during rendering.

Author: updated!

- The base color picker, created using an [`<input type="color">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/color) control. When a new value is set in this control, the `--base-color` custom property is set to this value using JavaScript, which in turn generates a new color palette. All the displayed colors are relative colors based on `--base-color`.

> - The set of [`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio) controls that allow you to choose a color palette type to generate. When a new value is chosen here, JavaScript is used to set a new class on the `container` `<div>` to represent the chosen palette and generate the right number of child `<div>`s inside it to display the colors for that palette. In the CSS, descendant selectors are used to target the child `<div>`s (e.g. `.comp :nth-child(1)`) so they can have the correct colors applied to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The set of [`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio) controls enable choosing the color palette type to generate. When a new value is chosen, JavaScript is used to set a new class on the `container` `<div>` to represent the chosen palette and generate the right number of child `<div>`s inside it to display the colors for that palette. In the CSS, descendant selectors are used to target the child `<div>`s (e.g. `.comp :nth-child(1)`) so they can have the correct colors applied to them.
```

Author: updated

> - The aforementioned `container` `<div>` containing the child `<div>`s that display the colors of the generated palette. Note how an initial class of `comp` is set on it, so that the page will display a complementary color scheme when first loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
It already says that it will load with the red complementary scheme above. 
If keeping, rework. "Aforementioned" is beyond the reading comprehension level for ESL peeps.
I think we can get rid of this bullet point.

Author: I'd like to keep it; I think the second sentence is useful, but I think it needs the first sentence to work. I've removed "Aforementioned".

      <label for="color">Select a base color:</label>
      <input type="color" id="color" name="color" value="#ff0000" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <fieldset>
        <legend>Select a color palette type:</legend>

        <div>
          <input
            type="radio"
            id="comp"
            name="palette-type"
            value="comp"
            checked />
          <label for="comp">Complementary</label>
        </div>

        <div>
          <input
            type="radio"
            id="triadic"
            name="palette-type"
            value="triadic" />
          <label for="triadic">Triadic</label>
        </div>

        <div>
          <input
            type="radio"
            id="tetradic"
            name="palette-type"
            value="tetradic" />
          <label for="tetradic">Tetradic</label>
        </div>

        <div>
          <input
            type="radio"
            id="monochrome"
            name="palette-type"
            value="monochrome" />
          <label for="monochrome">Monochrome</label>
        </div>
      </fieldset>
    </div>
  </form>
  <div id="container" class="comp" style="--base-color: #ff0000;">
    <div></div>

>     <div></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div></div>
    <div></div>
    <div></div>
    <div></div>
```
adding this to make my CSS magic work below.

Author: OK, I see what you are doing here. This is a clever, elegant solution, and it made me smile. Nice work, @estelle!

  </div>
</div>
```

#### CSS

> Below we are only showing the CSS that sets the palette colors. Note how, in each case, descendent selectors are used to apply the correct {{cssxref("background-color")}} to each child `<div>` for the chosen palette. We care more about the position of the `<div>`s in the source order than the type of element, so we have used {{cssxref(":nth-child")}} to target them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below we are only showing the CSS that sets the palette colors. Note how, in each case, descendent selectors are used to apply the correct {{cssxref("background-color")}} to each child `<div>` for the chosen palette. We care more about the position of the `<div>`s in the source order than the type of element, so we have used {{cssxref(":nth-child")}} to target them. We've used the [general sibling selector  (`~`)](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Subsequent-sibling_combinator) to prevent unused `<div>` elements from being rendered.
```

Author: Added, but I reworded the explanation a bit and included it as a separate paragraph:

> In the last rule we've used the [general sibling selector (`~`)](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Subsequent-sibling_combinator) to target the unused `<div>` elements in each palette type, setting [`display: none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Subsequent-sibling_combinator) to stop them being rendered.

}

.tetradic :nth-child(4) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 270));
}

/* Use @supports to add in support old syntax that requires deg units
   to be specified in hue calculations. This is required for Safari 16.4+. */
@supports (color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 90deg))) {
  .tetradic :nth-child(2) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 90deg));
  }

  .tetradic :nth-child(3) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 180deg));
  }

  .tetradic :nth-child(4) {
    background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) l c calc(h + 270deg));
  }
}

/* monochrome colors */
/* Base color, and base color with lightness channel -20, -10, +10, and +20 */

.monochrome :nth-child(1) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l - 20) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(2) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l - 10) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(3) {
  background-color: var(--base-color);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(4) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 10) c h);
}

.monochrome :nth-child(5) {
  background-color: lch(from var(--base-color) calc(l + 20) c h);

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}

/* hide unused swatches */
.comp :nth-child(2) ~ div,
.triadic :nth-child(3) ~ div,
.tetradic :nth-child(4) ~ div {
   display: none;
}
```
this hides all the unneeded divs so you can get rid of a lot of JS

Author: Very cool. Added!

```

#### An aside on `@supports` testing

> In the example CSS you'll notice {{cssxref("@supports")}} blocks being used to provide different {{cssxref("background-color")}} values to browsers that support a different variant of the relative color syntax. These are required because Safari's initial implementation was based on an older version of the spec in which origin color channel values resolved to {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}s or other unit types depending on the context. This meant that values sometimes required units when performing additions and subtractions, which created confusion. In newer implementations, origin color channel values always resolve to an equivalent {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} value, which means calculations are always done with unitless values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example CSS you'll notice {{cssxref("@supports")}} blocks being used to provide different {{cssxref("background-color")}} values to browsers that support a previous draft specification of the relative color syntax. These are required because Safari's initial implementation was based on an older version of the spec in which origin color channel values resolved to {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}s or other unit types depending on the context. This meant that values sometimes required units when performing additions and subtractions, which created confusion. In newer implementations, origin color channel values always resolve to an equivalent {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} value, which means calculations are always done with unitless values.
```

Author: updated

Note how the support test in each case is done using a simple declaration — `color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 90deg))` for example — rather than the actual value that we need to vary for other browsers. When testing complex values like these, you should use the simplest possible declaration that still contains the syntactic difference you want to test for.

> Including the custom property didn't work — the test came back as positive regardless of what value the custom property was given, hence `var(--base-color)` being replaced by the `red` keyword in each support test. A custom property value only becomes invalid when that custom property is then assigned to be the value (or part of the value) of a regular CSS property.

Reviewer: i dont' know what this paragraph is trying to say.

Author: Yeah, it wasn't very clear. I've tried updating it to the following:

> Including a custom property in the `@supports` test doesn't work — the test comes back as positive regardless of what value the custom property is given. This is because a custom property value only becomes invalid when assigned to be an invalid value (or part of an invalid value) of a regular CSS property. To work around this, in each test we have replaced `var(--base-color)` with the `red` keyword.

Does that work any better?

Reviewer: perfect! (but I likely suggested edits anyhow ;) )

#### JavaScript

In the JavaScript, we:

> - Add a [`change`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/change_event) event listener to the radio buttons so that when one is selected, the `setContainer()` function runs. This function does three things:
>   1. Updates the `class` value of the `<div>` with `id="container"` with the value of the selected radio button so that the correct background colors will be applied to the child `<div>`s for the chosen palette type.
>   2. Removes the existing child `<div>`s from the `container` `<div>`.
>   3. Adds the correct number of child `<div>`s back into the `container` `<div>` for the chosen palette type.
> - Add an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the color picker control so that when a new color is selected, the `setBaseColor()` function runs. This function sets the `--base-color` custom property's value to the new color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a [`change`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/change_event) event listener to the radio buttons so that when one is selected, the `setContainer()` function runs. This function updates the `class` value of the `<div>` with `id="container"` with the value of the selected radio button so that the correct background colors will be applied to the child `<div>`s for the chosen palette type.
- Add an [`input`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/input_event) event listener to the color picker control so that when a new color is selected, the `setBaseColor()` function runs. This function sets the `--base-color` custom property's value to the new color.
```

Author: updated!

```js
const form = document.forms[0];
const radios = form.elements["palette-type"];
const colorPicker = form.elements["color"];
const containerElem = document.getElementById("container");

for (const radio of radios) {
  radio.addEventListener("change", setContainer);
}

colorPicker.addEventListener("input", setBaseColor);

function setContainer(e) {
  const palType = e.target.value;
  console.log("radio changed");
  containerElem.setAttribute("class", palType);

  containerElem.innerHTML = "";

  let num;
  if (palType === "comp") {
    num = 2;
  } else if (palType === "triadic") {
    num = 3;
  } else if (palType === "tetradic") {
    num = 4;
  } else {
    num = 5;
  }

  for (let i = 1; i <= num; i++) {
    const divElem = document.createElement("div");
    containerElem.append(divElem);
  }

> }

Reviewer: we can get rid of half the JS by doing div ~ div {display:none} in CSS

> function setContainer(e) {
>   const palType = e.target.value;
>   console.log("radio changed");
>   containerElem.setAttribute("class", palType);
> 
>   containerElem.innerHTML = "";
> 
>   let num;
>   if (palType === "comp") {
>     num = 2;
>   } else if (palType === "triadic") {
>     num = 3;
>   } else if (palType === "tetradic") {
>     num = 4;
>   } else {
>     num = 5;
>   }
> 
>   for (let i = 1; i <= num; i++) {
>     const divElem = document.createElement("div");
>     containerElem.append(divElem);
>   }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function setContainer(e) {
  const palType = e.target.value;
  console.log("radio changed");
  containerElem.setAttribute("class", palType);
}
```

Reviewer: we got rid of most of the JS by adding some CSS.

Author: updated!

  display: none;
}
```

#### An aside on `@supports` testing

In the example CSS you'll notice {{cssxref("@supports")}} blocks being used to provide different {{cssxref("background-color")}} values to browsers that support a previous draft specification of the relative color syntax. These are required because Safari's initial implementation was based on an older version of the spec in which origin color channel values resolved to {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}s or other unit types depending on the context. This meant that values sometimes required units when performing additions and subtractions, which created confusion. In newer implementations, origin color channel values always resolve to an equivalent {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} value, which means calculations are always done with unitless values.

Note how the support test in each case is done using a simple declaration — `color: lch(from red l c calc(h + 90deg))` for example — rather than the actual value that we need to vary for other browsers. When testing complex values like these, you should use the simplest possible declaration that still contains the syntactic difference you want to test for.

> Including a custom property in the `@supports` test doesn't work — the test comes back as positive regardless of what value the custom property is given. This is because a custom property value only becomes invalid when assigned to be an invalid value (or part of an invalid value) of a regular CSS property. To work around this, in each test we have replaced `var(--base-color)` with the `red` keyword.

Reviewer: Now I get it! Very well explained.

Author: Cool cool!
